One problem in
the payment network system
is that it involves
a really complicated series of
transactions that need
to be authorized,
authenticated, clear,
and settle in a process
that at least in
current iterations is
not at all in real time.
Let's think about what
happens when you use
your credit card as
a means of transacting.
So you go to the local grocery
store and you give the
grocer your credit card to
purchase a $100 of groceries.
The merchant then has to send
those credit card details to
the merchants acquiring bank.
The merchants acquiring bank is
responsible for
getting the funds from
the card holders issuing
bank back to the merchant.
So the acquiring bank,
the merchant's bank then
forwards those
credit card details
to the credit card network
let's say MasterCard
in this setting,
and then MasterCard goes
to the customer's bank,
the issuing bank and then request
payment authorization
for that transaction.
Next the issuing bank,
the customer's bank has to verify
the card information that it
receives from
the credit card network.
If customer funds are available
for that transaction it has to
send an approval code to
the merchant via
the same series of channels.
Through the initial card
network MasterCard in
this case back to the acquiring
bank the merchant's bank,
then back through
the acquirer to the merchant,
and then the merchants
payment terminal
collects all the approvals
from this complicated process
and approves the
transaction providing
the customer with the sales slip
to complete this purchase.
At this point the transaction
has been approved
by the customer,
but no funds have
actually exchanged hands.
Now the merchant is going to
have to send the batch of
approved transactions back to
his bank, the acquiring bank.
The acquiring bank then has
to forward that approval
back to the credit card network,
MasterCard for settlement.
The credit card network has to
send every approved
transaction to
the appropriate issuing bank,
the customer's bank.
Then the customer's bank
is going to have
to transfer the funds back to
the acquiring bank
routing it through
the credit card network through
a series of complex transactions,
each of which has a fee
for the participating
institution.
At this point the transaction has
been approved but no funds have
actually been transferred between
the cardholder and the merchant.
So now the merchant
is going to send
notice of the
approved transaction
to his bank, the acquiring bank.
The acquiring bank is
then going to send
that approval along to
the card network MasterCard
for settlement in this case.
The card network sends
every approved transaction to
the customers issuing bank,
and then the issuing
bank transfers funds
through the card network
to the acquiring bank,
and the acquiring bank,
the merchant's bank
provides the merchant
those funds to complete
this particular transaction.
Know how many different
participating institutions are
required just to get
an exchange from the card holder
to the merchant,
for purchase of a retail good
in this setting.
Compare this complexity with
the simple cash transaction where
the card holder has a $100 bill,
and provides it to the merchant
in order to pay for
the groceries set she requires.
Perhaps unsurprising given
this incredibly complicated
chain of transactions,
but in the United States
today we are
far from a real time
payment system.
This means that every piece of
this transaction chain takes
significant time in order
to settle or clear.
So it takes time for
merchants to be able to get
the funds that they are owed
when consumers make transactions.
It also is unclear from
the consumer's perspective,
for the merchant's perspective,
even the bank's perspective
whether the funds are actually
available to be dispersed at
the time when
the transaction is made.
This is a noted, this
is a problem that
exists in the United
States more so
than interestingly
in countries with
better real-time payment
systems like China,
and one that
the Federal Reserve is
quite attuned to and
paying attention to.
Recently, Lael
Brainard governor on
the Federal Reserve Board
noted that consumers and
businesses expect to
be able to send and
immediately receive payments
at anytime of the day,
on any day of the year.
Given that our economy
is a 24/7 one,
it is important for the payment
structure to be as well.
This is why she advocates that
the Federal Reserve
in the private sector
come together to
try and make investments in
real-time payments to create
a more secure and more
efficient payment structure
for the future.
Most existing real-time
payment systems
around the world offer
instantaneous 24/7,
interbank electronic transfer
fund services that can
be initiated through a variety of
channels like on your smartphone,
or through a digital wallet,
or through the web.
In such a scheme,
low value real-time
payment requests
can be initiated that
enables instantaneous
payment fund transfer,
and a secure transaction
that can be done with
much less complexity than
in our current scheme.